---
layout: post
categories: Rails
author: Nick Calabro
image: railswelcome.jpg
excerpt: "What's a web app if you can't sign up and sign in? Using Devise, creating users authenticating them is as easy as pie."
---

<meta name="twitter:card" content="summary" />
<meta name="twitter:site" content="@NickCalabs" />
<meta name="twitter:title" content="{{ page.title }}" />
<meta name="twitter:description" content="Nick Calabro's Blog" />

<div class="message">This is part five of the six part series covering, in detail, how to <a href="http://nameless-dusk-8821.herokuapp.com">create this blog with Ruby on Rails</a> from backend to frontend. 
</div>

Right now, anyone can come into your application and start deleting your posts - or worse, they can make their own posts. Our application is great and all, but it has no idea who you are. We’re going to fix that right now with <a href="https://github.com/plataformatec/devise">Devise</a>. First step for this is to add the gem to our Gemfile. We did this before while adding Bootstrap. Simply append `gem 'devise', '~> 3.4.0'` and run `bundle install`. Restart your server and run `rails g devise:install`. This will prompt some instructions for you. Step five should be to install the Devise views, we’ll do that by running `rails g devise:views`.

Now, run `rails g devise User`, `rake db:migrate` and navigate to <a>localhost:3000/users/sign_up</a> you should be able to sign up. The only thing left to do is still make sure that not just anyone can mess around with your posts. In posts_controller.rb, right on the second line add this line of code provided by Devise, `before_action :authentication_user!, except: [:index, :show]`.

All that is left is to make sure you have to be signed in to access the edit and delete links. This one’s easy, in `show.html.erb`, wrap the edit and delete links in `<% if user_signed_in? %>` and `<% end %>`. Commit all of this.

<div class="message">
  If you liked this or found it useful please let me know. You can check out the code on my <a href="http://github.com/nickcalabs">GitHub</a> and I'd love to connect on <a href="http://twitter.com/nickcalabs">Twitter</a>, <a href="http://linkedin.com/in/nickcalabro">Linkedin</a>, or just chatting in <a href="mailto:calabro.nick@gmail.com">emails</a>.
</div>